expo-doctor identified the launch crash cause: two SDK 57-era packages are installed in this SDK 54 project, causing a duplicate native module (expo-image-loader) and a Hermes segfault at startup. Fix all of the following in one pass, then verify. Do not change any other dependencies.

1. Align the mismatched packages to SDK 54

Use npx expo install (NOT plain npm/pnpm add) so the SDK-54-correct versions are chosen automatically:

cd artifacts/squadz-native
npx expo install expo-image-manipulator expo-secure-store expo

Expected: expo-image-manipulator → SDK 54 version (~14.0.x) down from 57.0.2; expo-secure-store → SDK 54 version (~15.0.x) down from 57.0.0; expo → ~54.0.36.

2. Confirm the duplicate native module is gone

pnpm --filter @workspace/squadz-native list expo-image-loader

There must be exactly ONE resolved version now, not both 57.0.0 and 6.0.0. If two remain, dedupe until only the SDK-54 version is present.

3. Re-run the doctor to confirm the checks pass

npx expo-doctor
npx expo install --check

The "package versions vs SDK 54" check and the "duplicate expo-image-loader" check must both now pass. The app.json/app.config.js note and the react-native-compressor New-Architecture note can remain — flag but do not fix in this pass.

4. CRITICAL — verify expo-secure-store still works after the downgrade

expo-secure-store is used in the auth token migration (secure token storage, forced re-auth for stale tokens). Downgrading from 57 to 15 must not break it. Confirm setItemAsync / getItemAsync / deleteItemAsync and any options passed still exist and behave the same in the SDK 54 version. If any method signature or option differs between v57 and v15, report it — do not silently leave broken calls.

5. Re-run the test suites

cd artifacts/squadz-native && pnpm test
cd ~/workspace && pnpm --filter @workspace/api-server run test

Both must stay green (240 mobile / 787 API). Report counts.

Output: Report the final resolved versions of the three packages, confirmation that only one expo-image-loader remains, the expo-doctor result, any secure-store API differences found, and the test counts. Do NOT rebuild yet — I want to review before spending a build.